If you've been listening to AI experts
lately, one phrase comes up over and
over and over. AGI, artificial general
intelligence, AGI, AGI, whatever you
want to call it. Super intelligence and
AGI. Our goal is to make AGI. When AGI
arrives, you know, I think it's going to
change uh pretty much everything about
the way we do things. AGI, artificial
general intelligence, the technology
holy grail. Machines that don't just
mimic human thinking, but match then
fast surpass it. But ask those same
experts their thoughts on the what and
when of AGI. You get a dozen different
answers. Some say it's when a computer
can do any intellectual task a human
can. Others say it's about transfer
learning, applying knowledge to
different situations. Some say it's 10
years away, others two. Today's AI tools
can feel very human, at times brilliant.
But large language models aren't yet
intelligent. They're highly skilled but
narrow. They're good at mimicking and
matching patterns trained on tasks like
writing code or generating images or
text. Artificial general intelligence is
very different. These are machines that
understand and learn and adapt like or
better than humans. Many LLMs now
arguably passed the Turing test. So
experts have proposed new goalposts to
understand when machines reach human
level cognition. Microsoft AI's Mustafa
Sullean says that AGI is when you can
hand an AI $100,000 and it turns it into
a million on its own. Apple co-founder
Steve Waznjak says AGI is when a robot
can make coffee in a stranger's kitchen.
To understand AGI's potential, imagine
you have an apple and you want to make a
meal. Google gives you recipe links,
chat GPT writes a recipe in the style of
Shakespeare or Taylor Swift. But AGI
knows your tastes, orders ingredients,
hires a cook, and has dinner ready for
you when you get home. Or let's say you
ask, "How do I turn Usuzbekistan into a
top 10 global economy?" AGI laughs a bit
and then reads everything ever written
about economic development. It builds
models. It runs simulations. It factors
in demographics, climate, politics, and
crafts a strategy and starts emailing
ministers in Usuzbekistan in Usuzbek
with a reform plan. That's the
difference. AGI doesn't just tell you
the answers. It figures them out like a
human strategist. The one who never
sleeps, never eats, doesn't waste time
scrolling Instagram, and then gets it
done. What happens next? Best case
scenario, AGI helps us solve climate
change, cure cancer, boost productivity,
and enter a new golden age where
innovation isn't limited by us. Worst
case, AGI decides that human beings are
inefficient carbon-based error machines
and logically concludes the easiest way
to save the planet is to eliminate us.
We are not yet on the brink of Skynet.
We aren't an algorithm away from the
Terminator. Computers still struggle
with fundamental human concepts like
spatial recognition and sensory
perception. And AGI is also limited by
the enormous energy needed to power it.
But dismissing AGI as science fiction is
a mistake because virtually every AI
expert out there says that AGI is coming
fast and society is not ready. The
timeline may be fuzzy, but what is
certain is that AGI is a technology that
will redefine intelligence, the rules of
power, and with it our understanding of
what it means to be human.
[Music]